# Part 2.  Write a Research Proposal

This is the second part of the final assignment. Your research proposal should meet a minimum word count of 1800 words, not including references or titles.  Be certain to cite all sources and include a bibliography of references. Include figures, captions and formulas as needed. Please post a link to your research plan on your GitHub index not later than 5:00 PM on May 18th.

### Research Proposal Steps \(1800 words minimum\)

Write a research proposal that you plan to implement in order to answer your central research question.

1. Introduce your research idea and provide context for the starting point. Describe the open question you have identified as well as its relevance to the existing body of literature. Include perspective regarding the potential benefit from successful implementation of your research plan.
2. Propose your solution or concept that will serve to advance answering your central research question. Describe your approach including necessary tasks that need executed in order to investigate the research problem. Postulate a novel hypothesis.
3. Describe the objective of your inquiry. Identify major gains, obstacles or bottlenecks you anticipate. What suggestions for subsequent research could arise from the potential out-comes of the study? What will the results mean to practitioners in the natural settings of their workplace? In what way would individuals or groups potentially benefit? How will the results of the study be implemented and what innovations could emerge? [https://libguides.usc.edu/writingguide/researchproposal](https://libguides.usc.edu/writingguide/researchproposal)
4. Argue why the jury / foundation should definitively consider your research plan. Make your best argument in favor of funding for your proposal. You are welcome to compare your plan to other methods that were identified as part of your literature review or methodological investigation.  Focus only on comparing the pros and cons of methods within the context of your similarly seated process oriented application.
5. Which objections do you expect in response to your plan? Provide arguments against those possible concerns. Also include justification for your selected research design when compared to other options.
6. Provide a brief budget that enumerates a 1 year exploratory phase that would serve as the basis for implementing your research. Consider all data costs as nominal. Consider any costs associated with time on-site, travel, accommodations or food in favorable terms.Consider that all potential partner institutions \(or businesses\) are generally receptive towards contributions that will serve to fulfill plan goals and objectives within reasonable limits.Consider that all costs incurred throughout your exploratory phase will need to be accounted for with receipts. Consider that you are bound to all laws of the country where the donor institution is located \(the United States\) as well as the William & Mary Honor Code.
7. Keep in mind that your plan should focus on a methodological solution to your proposed central research question. This will likely involve a step forward with some aspect of the existing methodology and/or access to data needed for use in that newly conceptualized method. You may consider a $100,000 budget as the limit for your 1 year exploratory phase.

